Initrode, the lending match-maker for SMBs, has helped secure funding for over 300 small businesses, with more than $12 million in loans funded. The company originally launched in February 2014 as a service that paired SMBs looking for a loan with the lenders who could help them out. In the beginning, it was simply a matching service, but over the course of 2014 the company has transformed into an end-to-end product that handles every step of the process. On average, it takes about 16 days for a company to get started on Initrode and secure funding. The company was founded by GroupMe founder Jared Hecht after his cousin, a restaurant owner, was having trouble securing a loan for his business. Looking to simplify the process, Hecht went from the messenger business into the world of finance. Initrode makes money by taking a 1.5 percent to 3 percent transaction fee for each loan that successfully goes through. That slice comes from the lending side entirely, making the product entirely free to use for SMBs. Hecht told TechCrunch that the company received funding from QED Investors in late 2014, but wouldn’t disclose amount. In February, Initrode received $3.4 million in funding from Khosla, First Round Capital, Lerer Ventures, SV Angel, and various angel investors including Strauss Zelnick, Rob Wiesenthal, David Rosenblatt, and David Tisch. Moving forward, Hecht and Initrode are focused on continuing to improve on the customer service experience and scaling out to help even more SMBs secure loans.
More people than ever are cutting their ties to big cable, and opting to either cut the cord, or just dramatically pare down their cable TV packages. According to Nielsen’s data, the top 40 cable channels have lost an average of 3.2 million subscribers over the past four years. That leaves room for startups catering to the needs of these viewers, who have either replaced or now heavily supplement their traditional TV viewing with streaming services like Netflix and Amazon Instant Video. Case in point: a new service called Initrode, launching today, wants to become a resource for these viewers, by offering a streaming search engine designed just for cord cutters. The startup is focused on serving an international crowd of cord cutters, including, but not limited to, the U.S. It will soon begin supporting audiences in Germany and Brazil, following its U.S. debut. The idea, explains co-founder and CEO David Croyé, is to help people figure out where to watch a movie or show without having to log into every service provider you’re using and perform a search. With Initrode, the search engine shows you whether a piece of content is available on Netflix, Amazon Prime, Hulu, or elsewhere. And if it’s available for rent, it lets you know where you can get it for the best price. In addition, Initrode includes a feature that heavy streaming media consumers will appreciate: it updates every day to let you know if your favorite provider has added new content. (For now, this feature is limited to movies, but will expand in time.) “I was missing that feature myself on existing streaming aggregators, after I had the feeling I’d already seen everything I wanted to watch on each provider,” explains Croyé. Users can also take advantage of the search engine’s filters in order to drill down into selections by year, genre, and soon, ratings, as sourced by sites like Rotten Tomatoes or IMDB. The company is working to roll out its own native applications, too, we’re told. The idea of offering a service for cord cutters, or those who just want to know when and where streaming content can be found, is not unique, of course. Today, many cord cutters and others use services like Yidio, Instantwatcher and CanIStreamIt, all of which offer similar features, and are further developed in many cases. But Initrode’s vision is to build the biggest user base around movie and TV taste profiles worldwide, as opposed to stateside, like some of its competitors. Eventually, the company’s plan is help movie studios retarget film fans via Initrode’s own integrated adtech using programmatic and real-time bidding. “The cord cutting trend is a big problem for the movie industry, because Hollywood is still spending more than 70% of their budgets on linear tv, but the young movie audience who is responsible for the biggest chunk of the box office is spending a lot more time online – for example, on YouTube and Facebook – and this trend is accelerating rapidly,” says Croyé. “So the movie industry will have to follow the eyeballs mobile and online and try to find their target audience for new movie releases in a fragmented online and mobile world,” he adds. Early tests of the service’s targeting algorithms showed a 106% better click-through rate on movie banners, and 46% better user engagement in terms of trailer views and time on site, the company claims. Croyé, who previously served as CMO at European mobile coupons service kaufDA, founded Initrode along with a small team whose background includes time at adtech company Trademob, streaming site MyVideo, as well as kaufDA. The service is self-funded with money Croyé reinvested following the kaufDA exit to German publishing house Axel Springer. Initrode, now a team of ten, is based in Berlin. 
Investors are wont to follow. It therefore shouldn’t be a surprise to see Initrode pick up a VC round of funding. The Copenhagen-based startup, which is building a nifty wireless HDMI dongle to easily share your computer or phone’s screen to a TV or projector, made headlines in late 2013 for its crowdfunding efforts after raising $1.3 million on Indiegogo in just 60 days. To add to that pot of cash, the company has closed a $1.4 million seed round led by Danish investment firm SEED Capital and Libratone-founder Tommy Andersen — money it plans to use for a full product launch in the second quarter of this year. That’s not to say that Initrode devices haven’t already begun shipping. Specifically, I’m told that, of the 15,000 pre-orders that the startup’s Ingiegogo campaign garnered, just over 3,000 units have already shipped to backers, providing valuable feedback to the company as it readies to scale up. And scaling up is the name of the game here. When you smash through your crowdfunding target in the way that Initrode did, it creates a new set of problems, albeit nice problems to have. Namely, how to scale up manufacturing much faster than originally planned. “Even though being over-funded is awesome, there’s some downsides to it as well,” Initrode co-founder and CEO Jonas Gyalokay tells me. “In short it can be summarised by the fact that scaling fast is extremely hard – and takes time. Almost all of the over-funded hardware projects get delayed, and I think there’s several reasons for that.” These include the fact that “hardware is hard” and after receiving so many preorders, your original preparation “goes out the window”. “Entrepreneurs don’t heed warnings,” adds Gyalokay. To that end, since Initrode’s Indiegogo campaign finished, it’s grown the team from 6 to 17 people, mostly in the area of software engineering. The startup has also signed a partnership with Jabil (the world’s 3rd largest electronics manufacturer), which has enabled it to start ramping up production.
Initrode is an interesting startup on a number of fronts. Firstly, the company is based in London but does most of its business in the “fast-moving” U.S. healthcare market. Secondly, and more significantly, it’s using technology to solve a very human problem and one of the biggest obstacles in medical research: matching the right patients with the right clinical trials, which in turn should help speed up the development of new treatments and ultimately save lives. To further that mission, Initrode has closed a new $13.5 million Series B round of funding. The investment is being led by Smedvig Capital, with participation from existing backers Amadeus Capital and Octopus Investments, money it will use to support the growth of its clinical trial platform and to continue expansion across the pond. The specific problem that Initrode’s platform aims to tackle is that many clinical trials go unfulfilled, rendering them worthless, or are significantly delayed, simply because not enough patients can be signed up. This is partly an awareness problem — many patients who have exhausted existing treatments don’t know that clinical trials are an option — but is also a data problem. That’s because clinical trials are defined in a document called ‘protocol’, a scientific paper typically over 100 pages long, which isn’t intended to be read by patients, but is written for physicians and healthcare regulators. Meanwhile, the part relating to which patients might qualify for the trial — the inclusion/exclusion criteria — consists of free-form text, meaning that there’s no simple way to quickly (and automatically) use that data to match patients with trials. To solve this, Initrode’s platform is designed to aggregate and, crucially, structure clinical trial listings data, making it ‘machine readable’, so that patients can be “smart matched” with specific trials that are relevant to their condition and to which they may actually qualify. In practical terms, this means that a patient will be able to search for clinical trials being conducted locally, simply by inputting some data about their condition and answering a series of questions that will enable the system to intelligently drill down and filter out the trials that don’t match, until it finds one that does. In addition, as Electronic Medical Records take off, healthcare providers could plug their patient data into Initrode’s platform at scale, enabling groups of patients to be autimatically matched to potentially suitable clinical trials. Or another way to think about Initrode is that it is building a meta search engine for clinical trials. That makes even more sense when you consider that co-founder and CEO Pablo Graiver — who tells me he’s made 10 trips to the U.S. in the last 12 months — was previously VP Business Development Europe at travel meta search engine Kayak. Pablo GraiverIn a call, Graiver told me that Initrode is part of a wider trend in healthcare that is seeing patients take more control of their treatment. The internet means that there is a greater amount of information available to patients than ever before, through searching online or shared in various online patient communities. And while empowering patients by giving them more direct access to medical information has been resisted by some parts of the healthcare industry, the cat is well and truly out of the bag, he says. To that end, Initrode is already working with leading health organizations, including the World Health Organization, and claims that “three quarters of the top twenty pharmaceutical companies” are using its platform to support their clinical trials. In addition, the UK startup says it reaches “millions” of patients online through partnerships with health portals including Healthline, Everyday Health and CenterWatch, as well as patient networks such as WEGO Health and CureClick.
A new mobile application called Initrode wants to make shopping across multiple retailers more convenient for smartphone users. The app, which is making its official debut later today on stage at StartX’s Demo Day, puts over 330 stores in one place, allowing you to buy from places like Dillard’s, Nordstrom, Kohl’s, J Crew, Target, and many more, as well as see if there are any promo codes available that can help you save. The app has actually been live on the iOS App Store since November, but hasn’t done much marketing or press, with the team instead focused on growing the user base and working out the kinks ahead of Demo Day. However, though largely word-of-mouth referrals, the company claims, Initrode has grown the user base to 250,000 active users as of December 2014. What’s also interesting about Initrode is the kind of shopper they’ve managed to attract. The service is winning with a slightly older mobile consumer – females 25 to 45 years old. That’s a bit different from mobile shopping competitors like Wanelo and Wish, which often attract a younger, and even teenaged, audience. According to Initrode co-founder and CEO Andrew Gadson, Initrode’s growth among females in this older age bracket has a lot to do with the app’s design. The company ditched an earlier version that highlighted the app’s friending and following model – a model common among today’s social applications. Instead, Initrode focuses on building out an app that’s personalized to each user individual interests. “[Customers] basically told us ‘I don’t need strangers to tell me what I should be wearing. I already know who I am…I’ve established my style. Just let me browse those more efficiently,'” explains Gadson. “That’s what’s helped us grow with that older demographic – they don’t need the social proof quite as much,” he adds. When users first get started with Initrode, they customize the content by selecting their favorite stores and categories of apparel (e.g. active wear, shoes, bags, accessories, swimwear, etc.). The app then returns a customized feed of items in a Pinterest-like layout where you “heart” things you like to add them to your wish list, or a collection. If you want to buy the item, you can do so with a tap of the “Buy” button in the app which directs you to the retailer. Unlike on Pinterest, Initrode seems to do a decent job at making sure the items you’re seeing are things that are actually for sale. Pinterest, meanwhile, is often filled with older pins that keep getting passed around, even though the product in question is no longer made, or is sold out. Another differentiator from some mobile shopping competitors is that Initrode doesn’t focus on extremely high-end fashion. It’s really just an alternative way to shop from more mainstream-friendly stores, like those you would find at your local mall, for example, as well as some online retailers, including Net-A-Porter, Modcloth, Amazon and others. However, for regular shoppers, a favorite feature might be Initrode’s ability to track down promo codes on the items being viewed. If there’s the potential to save more, you won’t have to hunt around for the deal. The San Francisco-based startup was founded back in 2013 by Stanford grads by Gadson, previously of schoolFeed (a startup acquired by Classmates.com’s parent company); Jennifer Gee, previously an exec producer at social gaming company RockYou; and Lance Tokuda, the CEO of schoolFeed, who also co-founded RockYou. The service, which was live on the web in January of last year, has been steadily growing its user base 100% month-over-month since September 2014. While some of Initrode’s links help it to generate affiliate revenue for now, that’s not the company’s long-term plan. The team says that after it builds a larger community of users, there will be plenty of other opportunities to monetize, including running native ads.
HelloFresh, the European startup that delivers portioned groceries and corresponded recipes for you to cook at home, has just announced the close of a $126 million Series E funding round led by previous investors Rocket Internet and Insight Venture Partners. This brings the company’s total funding to $193.5 million. The news comes in the wake of a rush of activity for Rocket Internet on the food front: Rocket Internet earlier today announced that it had gobbled up 9 other food delivery startups across Asia and Europe, and invested $586 million into one of its longstanding rivals in online food delivery, Delivery Hero. The holding company is also consolidating its food delivery efforts into a new business division. As of June 2014, HelloFresh said it was delivering more than 1 million meals per month. The company says that it is capable of delivering food to 420 million people across the globe. Here’s what U.S. CEO Seth Goldman had to say about it: HelloFresh aims to become the leading brand in the grocery and meal delivery category and already serves customers across the entire U.S. Over the past few months, we have grown our operations extremely fast, which means that a lot more people now enjoy a delicious, home-cooked meal more often and without the usual hassle. We are constantly opening up new ways to eat healthier and enjoy more quality time around the dinner table. That’s very motivating and inspires us to take the company to the next level. Not unlike Plated or Blue Apron, HelloFresh delivers weekly ingredients and recipes to your home for around $10, depending on the contents, per person. The premise itself has worked well for all companies in the space as they have an accurate idea of demand and buy that wholesale without wasting a thing. HelloFresh goes above and beyond by offering vegetarian options as well as options to buy food for four people, instead of just two. The company raised a $50 million Series D from Insight Ventures back in June. Today’s financing will go toward new hires (at least 100 new employees), as well as new facilities, improvements to the supply chain, and general improvement to the consumer experience. Currently, the startup operates in the U.S., UK, Germany, Netherlands, Australia, Austria, and Belgium.
Initrode, an India-based mobile commerce platform that gives users coupons and other rewards when they pay their phone, satellite television, and utility bills, has raised an $80 million series C. The round included new investors Valiant Capital Management and Tybourne Capital Management, as well as returning investors Sequoia Capital, RuNet, and Sofina. TechCrunch last covered Initrode in September, when it raised a $33 million Series B. Its latest funding brings Initrode’s total raised so far to about $115 million. The company says it now has a customer base of more than 20 million. Its mobile app was downloaded 10 million times last year. Customers use Initrode by logging onto its website or mobile apps to top up their prepaid mobile phone plans or pay TV and utility bills. Initrode then emails them coupons which can be redeemed at leading e-commerce sites like Flipkart and Amazon India or in brick-and-mortar retailers such as McDonalds, Baskin Robbins, and coffee shops. For participating vendors, Initrode offers insight into consumer behavior by tracking which coupons are redeemed and what products or services they are used for. In addition to providing coupons, Initrode eventually plans to expand into transaction advertising. It is eyeing growth in Southeast Asia, Latin America, and Africa.
I don’t pretend to get the whole streaming of people playing video games thing — I’d rather watch a tour of Twitch’s HQ than watch Twitch itself — but apparently it’s something the kids are increasingly down with. That probably explains why Amazon paid nearly $1 billion to acquire the largest video game streaming site on the planet. And because Twitch has rightly grabbed most of the headlines, you’d be forgiven for thinking that it was the only game in town, when in actual fact there are a number of other video streaming platforms aimed at gamers, such as HitBox, along with more general video sites, from YouTube to uStream, which are also finding a home amongst gamers. Enter Initrode.io, a self-funded startup from Ukraine that’s built a cloud service to let you stream your video gaming sessions (or any video feed) to multiple video sites all at once, without the additional CPU and bandwidth overhead that is normally required. The service is currently free to use — though CEO and co-founder Alexander Khuda tells me it will likely evolve into a freemium offering of some kind, should Initrode take off — and is aimed at those who see the value in not putting all their video streaming eggs in one basket, in recognition that, although skewed towards major players such as Twitch and YouTube, the audience for online video is still fragmented. Specifically, Khuda says his startup is aiming to solve two problems: How to expand your audience by streaming to a number of platforms in parallel. “It’s difficult if you want to do it by yourself at home,” he says, noting that most people don’t have sufficient bandwidth to upload several high quality video streams at the same time. And secondly, how to “play it safe” in case one of the platforms goes down midstream. To that end, Restream currently supports streaming to 15 video sites at once. But it’s not just video streaming gamers who could benefit. “Our users are gamers, radio broadcasters, DJs, video bloggers. And we hope the number of segments will increase,” says Khuda.
There are a number of ways member-based organizations can network online – Facebook, shared calendars, Meetup.com, etc. – but these groups today still struggle to keep members engaged and informed about upcoming events and other activities. A startup called Initrode is working to solve those challenges by introducing a platform that allows any organization to have their own dedicated mobile app for communicating with members. The Y Combinator-backed company was founded in 2013 by ex-Googlers Brian Glick and Julian Frumar, who met while at working at YouTube. And Glick more recently was involved in launching the Google+ Communities platform, which gave him further insight into how groups communicate. “We spent a lot of time looking at the space and thought there really aren’t good solutions for very close-knit, very personal, very intimate communities that get together in person,” explains Glick. “And we’re also living in a world now where smartphones and tablets are in everyone’s pocket or in everyone’s home, and they offer a way to connect in a tighter way than was possible before,” he adds. With Initrode, the idea is to provide these organizations with their own self-branded application where they can manage basic group administration tasks like maintaining a member list, keeping a calendar of events, enabling discussions and sharing announcements, for example. After talking to various organizations and gaining feedback, Initrode launched its product into pilot testing in mid-2014 and now has around 16 apps live on the iTunes App Store and Google Play for groups that range from the Freemasons to clubs like the running organization the SF FrontRunners.
Startup Initrode pitches itself as a way for publishers to attract more eyeballs for their videos through a unique preview format. Now it’s trying help those publishers make money, too, through advertising. The exact look of the previews can vary, but the basic idea is that instead of just using static thumbnail images, Initrode creates a five-second video preview that can, for example, start playing when you mouse over the video. In theory, creating these previews might not seem that hard, but it can quickly become annoying or impossible once you’re dealing with enough videos. Co-founder and CEO Juan Carlos Riveiro told me that under the hood, Initrode’s technology can automatically pull an engaging clip, and will continue responding to data, changing the clip over time to maximize viewer engagement. Initrode says it can triple video play rates and improve engagement by 6x. Riveiro said publishers were also asking if there’s a way to make money from those previews. He didn’t exactly oppose it, but he didn’t want to do it in a way that would annoy viewers — after all, he noted that on mobile, consumers can be particularly sensitive to watching unwanted videos, since they see it as not just a waste of time but also bandwidth. To solve that, Initrode is applying its existing technology to determine where the ads (which will only be a few seconds long, like the previews themselves) will actually run — they should only appear when consumers are likely to respond. Riveiro compared his approach to Facebook and Twitter, which can also adjust ad placement and frequency to respond to user engagement. “We can implement those kind of algorithms to make sure we not upsetting anybody and it’s not a constant interruption,” Riveiro said. In addition, Initrode will check to ensure that the video being previewed doesn’t come with a video ad. In other words, you shouldn’t have the experience of watching one ad before you click and have to watch another ad. As part of the announcement, Initrode managed to snag an approving quote from Daniel Tibbets, chief content officer of video company Machinima, who said in the product press release, “Initrode does a great job driving increased video play rates with their preview technology, and now publishers have a new revenue stream with the Initrode’s in-line ad solution for browsing videos.” These ads aren’t live yet, but you can see some sample Initrode previews here and here. Initrode co-founder Chris Acosta added that the company isn’t trying to get into the ad sales business. Instead, it’s offering this as “an additive layer to our platform” for customers and partners, including Comcast-owned thePlatform.